# Getting Training

## Introduction

This page provides an overview of
Jitterbit's available training opportunities. Our trainings can be
divided into the following types:

-   [Jitterbit University](#GettingTraining-jitterbit-university)

-   [Jitterbit Tech Talks](#GettingTraining-jitterbit-tech-talks)

-   [Jitterbit Microlearning Tutorials](#GettingTraining-jitterbit-microlearning-tutorials)

-   [Jitterbit Process Template Tutorials](#GettingTraining-jitterbit-process-template-tutorials)

By offering a variety of training opportunities in several different
formats, the goal at Jitterbit is to allow all users the opportunity to
grow in both their comfort level with the products offered and their
ability to effectively use them. 


## <span style="color: rgb(85,46,155);"> <span id="GettingTraining-jitterbit-university" class="confluence-anchor-link conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false" macro-name="anchor"> </span>Jitterbit University</span>

<a href="https://university.jitterbit.com/" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">Jitterbit University</a> is our online learning system.
It is designed to facilitate proficiency with the Jitterbit Harmony API
Integration Platform. Hands-on and lecture-based training is available
for new users, advanced users, IT operations staff, and developers.

Jitterbit University is self-paced, so you can complete training courses
at your leisure. 

This video provides an overview of Jitterbit University:

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/366515738" width="640" height="361" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

### <span style="color: rgb(85,46,155);"> Registering for Training through Jitterbit University </span>

You must have an enrollment key in order to register for Jitterbit
University. To obtain an enrollment key, contact
your <a href="mailto:success@jitterbit.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">Customer Success Manager (CSM)</a> or <a href="mailto:alliances@jitterbit.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">Alliances Manager</a>.

Once you have an enrollment key,
visit <a href="https://university.jitterbit.com/" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">university.jitterbit.com</a> and click **Sign Up**. On
the next screen, enter your key and again click **Sign Up**. On the next
screen, provide your information and set the credentials that you want
to use to access Jitterbit University in the future. Click **Sign
Up** once more to complete the registration process.

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper"><img
src="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/87524647/signup_button.png?version=2&amp;modificationDate=1564054515966&amp;api=v2"
class="confluence-embedded-image"
data-image-src="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/87524647/signup_button.png?version=2&amp;modificationDate=1564054515966&amp;api=v2"
data-unresolved-comment-count="0" data-linked-resource-id="97814126"
data-linked-resource-version="2" data-linked-resource-type="attachment"
data-linked-resource-default-alias="signup_button.png"
data-base-url="https://success.jitterbit.com"
data-linked-resource-content-type="image/png"
data-linked-resource-container-id="87524647"
data-linked-resource-container-version="42" /></span>

After registering, you will receive a welcome email with further
information about joining the Harmony training organization (required
for certain courses), endpoint credentials for training purposes, and
related training resources.

### Enrolling in Jitterbit University Courses

Once you are registered, go
to <a href="https://university.jitterbit.com/" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">university.jitterbit.com</a>, enter the credentials you
used during registration and click **Login**. Upon logging in, you will
see a personalized dashboard with links to resume courses, browse the
course catalog, and view the courses you're enrolled in, as well as
links to other resources.

Click **Catalog** to view a complete list of all available courses and
exams, summarized below. To sign up for a particular course,
click **Enroll**, then click **Launch** to begin the training. You can
revisit the courses as many times as you like by re-enrolling. To do so,
click **Re-enroll** and then click **Launch** to retake the training
course. 

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper"><img
src="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/87524647/Jitterbit%20University%20Catalog.png?version=1&amp;modificationDate=1629315225012&amp;api=v2"
class="confluence-embedded-image"
data-image-src="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/87524647/Jitterbit%20University%20Catalog.png?version=1&amp;modificationDate=1629315225012&amp;api=v2"
data-unresolved-comment-count="0" data-linked-resource-id="127449470"
data-linked-resource-version="1" data-linked-resource-type="attachment"
data-linked-resource-default-alias="Jitterbit University Catalog.png"
data-base-url="https://success.jitterbit.com"
data-linked-resource-content-type="image/png"
data-linked-resource-container-id="87524647"
data-linked-resource-container-version="42" /></span>

### Jitterbit University Course List

<span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">Courses focusing on Jitterbit
Harmony Cloud Studio:</span>

-   [Introduction to Cloud
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Introduction+to+the+Jitterbit+Harmony+Cloud+Studio)

-   [Introduction to Scripting in Cloud
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Introduction+to+Scripting+in+Cloud+Studio)

-   [Advanced Transformation Mappings in Cloud
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Advanced+Transformation+Mappings+in+Cloud+Studio)

Courses focusing on Jitterbit Harmony Design Studio:

-   [Introduction to Design
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Introduction+to+Design+Studio)

-   [Introduction to Scripting in Design
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Introduction+to+Scripting+in+Design+Studio)

-   [Advanced Transformation Mappings in Design
    Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Advanced+Transformation+Mappings+in+Design+Studio)

-   [API Creation and
    Management](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/API+Creation+and+Management+Training+Course)

-   [Connecting to Salesforce](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Connecting+to+Salesforce)

Courses focusing on Jitterbit Harmony Administration and Extension:

-   [Jitterbit Organizational
    Administration](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Organizational+Administration)

-   [Jitterbit Plugin Creation](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Plugin+Creation)


## <span id="GettingTraining-jitterbit-tech-talks" class="confluence-anchor-link conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false" macro-name="anchor"> </span>Jitterbit Tech Talks

The Jitterbit Tech Talk series provides best practices to follow when
designing your integration projects within Jitterbit. With topics
ranging from "Error Handling Best Practices" to "API Proxy" and
everything in between, Jitterbit Tech Talks are a great tool for looking
deeper into the Jitterbit platform. As they are organized by topic, they
are an effective way of finding answers to a specific question. The
recorded sessions are available on
the <a href="https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Tech+Talks"
rel="nofollow">Jitterbit Tech Talks</a> page.

### <span style="color: rgb(85,46,155);"> <span id="GettingTraining-jitterbit-microlearning-tutorials" class="confluence-anchor-link conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false" macro-name="anchor"> </span>Jitterbit Microlearning Tutorials</span>

The Jitterbit Microlearning Tutorials are a quick video training series
that<span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);"> enable you to configure a
connection for a simple operation. Short and to the point, watch these
if you have only a few minutes or if you have a question regarding a
specific connector. These tutorials are available on the [Jitterbit
Microlearning Tutorials](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Microlearning+Tutorials)
page. </span>

### <span style="color: rgb(85,46,155);"> <span id="GettingTraining-jitterbit-process-template-tutorials" class="confluence-anchor-link conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false" macro-name="anchor"> </span>Jitterbit Process Template Tutorials</span>

Jitterbit Process Template Tutorials is a follow-along tutorial series
for configuring and using Jitterbit Process Templates. Providing
detailed instructions on specific process templates, these tutorials are
thorough and should help you create process templates effectively. These
tutorials are available on the [Cloud Studio Process
Templates](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/CS/Cloud+Studio+Process+Templates) page.


## Additional Information

<span class="conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="true"
macro-name="multiexcerpt"><span style="color: rgb(76,76,76);">If you
have questions <span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">related to Jitterbit
University course material, a Tech Talk, or training video, send an
email to</span></span>
<a href="mailto:training@jitterbit.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">training@jitterbit.com</a>.<span
style="color: rgb(76,76,76);"> <span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">For
additional support, visit</span>
<a href="https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Getting+Support"
rel="nofollow">Getting Support</a>.</span></span>
