[//]: # (Jitterbit Organizational Administration)

## Introduction

<span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">This course is designed for those in
IT operations-related roles within your organization. In this course
you’ll learn and discover many organizational admin-related tasks such
as Jitterbit organization security, user role creation, how to add users
to roles, environment configuration, how to assign roles to
environments, monitoring your activity logs, project management and
much, much more! This course is lecture-styled and chapters are composed
of videos followed by short quizzes to reinforce key principals.</span>

<span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">The Jitterbit Organizational
Administration training course is self-paced, so you can complete it at
your leisure. The Jitterbit Organizational Administration Certification
Exam is available and the end of the course. Earn your certificate by
scoring at least 75% on the exam. You may also be interested in our
webinar-style Tech Talk series. Recorded sessions are available
at [Jitterbit Tech Talks](/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Tech+Talks).</span>

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/366515870" width="640" height="361" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>


## **Time to Complete**

3 hours


## **Resources**

These resources are available for download in the Jitterbit
Organizational Administration course:

-   Course syllabus

-   Course transcript


## **Syllabus**

<span
class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper conf-macro output-inline"
hasbody="false" macro-name="view-file"><a
href="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/97813651/Jitterbit%20Org%20Admin%20Syllabus.pdf?version=2&amp;modificationDate=1568915397969&amp;api=v2"
class="confluence-embedded-file" data-nice-type="PDF Document"
data-file-src="https://success.jitterbit.com/download/attachments/97813651/Jitterbit%20Org%20Admin%20Syllabus.pdf?version=2&amp;modificationDate=1568915397969&amp;api=v2"
data-linked-resource-id="101221863"
data-linked-resource-type="attachment"
data-linked-resource-container-id="97813651"
data-linked-resource-default-alias="Jitterbit Org Admin Syllabus.pdf"
data-mime-type="application/pdf" data-has-thumbnail="true"
data-linked-resource-version="2"
aria-label="Jitterbit Org Admin Syllabus.pdf"><img
src="/rest/documentConversion/latest/conversion/thumbnail/101221863/2"
height="250" /></a><span
class="companion-edit-button-placeholder edit-button-overlay"
linked-resource-container-id="97813651" linked-resource-id="101221863"
template-name="companionEditIcon" source-location="embedded-attachment">
</span></span>


## **Chapters**

-   Welcome and Introduction

-   **Chapter 1:** Organization Security

    -   Organization Security Quiz

-   **Chapter 2:** User Roles Creation and Adding Users to Roles

    -   <span style="color: rgb(37,37,42);">User Roles Creation and
        Adding Users to Roles Quiz</span>

-   **Chapter 3:** Environment Configuration and Assigning Roles to
    Environments  

    -   Environment Configuration and Assigning Roles to Environments
        Quiz

-   **Chapter 4:** Monitoring Activity Logs

    -   <span style="color: rgb(37,37,42);">Monitoring Activity Logs
        Quiz</span>

-   **Chapter 5:** Searching Activity in the Management Console

    -   Searching Activity in the Management Console Quiz

-   **Chapter 6:** Customizations Page of the Management Console

    -   Plug-ins

    -   SSL Certificate Manager

    -   Customizations Page of the Management Console Quiz

-   **Chapter 7:** Agent Group Administration

    -   Agent Group Administration Quiz

-   **Chapter 8:** Organization Notifications

    -   Organization Notifications Quiz

-   **Chapter 9:** Project Management in the Management Console

    -   Project Management in the Management Console Quiz


## Additional Information

<span class="conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false"
macro-name="multiexcerpt-include"><span style="color: rgb(76,76,76);">If
you have questions <span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">related to
Jitterbit University course material, a Tech Talk, or training video,
send an email to</span></span>
<a href="mailto:training@jitterbit.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">training@jitterbit.com</a>.<span
style="color: rgb(76,76,76);"> <span style="color: rgb(23,43,77);">For
additional support, visit</span>
<a href="https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Getting+Support"
rel="nofollow">Getting Support</a>.</span></span>
