# Jitterbit Harmony Design Studio

## Overview

*Jitterbit Harmony Design Studio* (Design Studio) is Jitterbit's desktop
designer for configuring, and testing Jitterbit integration
projects. Design Studio is a standalone thick client that can be
installed on a Windows or Mac workstation. It simply requires access to
the Internet on the workstation or laptop that it runs on.

You can download the latest version through the [Jitterbit Harmony
Portal](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Harmony+Portal) from
the [Downloads](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Downloads) page.

Another option for project design is to use [Cloud
Studio](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/CS/Cloud+Studio), our next-generation project designer
featuring a modern and collaborative user experience with a cloud-based
UI.

Contact
your <a href="mailto:success@jitterbit.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow">Customer Success Manager</a> to determine which Studio
application best suits your needs for new projects, or to schedule a
Readiness Assessment Check for moving existing Design Studio projects to
Cloud Studio.

## Feature Summary

Design Studio is entirely wizard-driven, taking you step by step through
the creation of data mappings, connectivity, and transformations. The
Design Studio features automatic data mapping and enterprise connectors
to make connectivity as easy as possible. Complex data models are
supported including <span style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">
<a href="http://Salesforce.com" class="external-link"
rel="nofollow"><span
style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">Salesforce.com</span></a> </span> and
dynamic schemas, as well as connecting to SOAP API, REST API, and
cloud-based APIs such as the Salesforce Bulk API.

The user-friendly graphical interface provides multiple tools for easy
definition of complex business processes including predefined Formula
Builder functions, enhanced scripting and validation tools, chained
operations to be sequentially triggered by events in a prior operation,
user-defined local variables that run only in real-time operation of a
specific process, and predefined global variables that are defined
throughout the entire project.

In the design phase, you can test a query or other operation to make
sure all components are valid. Or you can actually run the operation,
which displays an operations monitor at the bottom of your screen to
report start/end times and progress, number of records processed, and
success or failure.   

Every element you create in Design Studio is defined in metadata. The
metadata is deployed to an environment to be stored, and is then managed
by the Management Console.

You can navigate the Design Studio user interface by using these
components:

-   **<span style="color: rgb(51,102,255);"> [<span
    style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">Main
    Menu</span>](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Design+Studio+Interface+Main+Menus)</span>:**
    Access most of the functionality provided by the system

-   **<span style="color: rgb(51,102,255);"> [<span
    style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">Main
    Toolbar</span>](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Design+Studio+Main+Toolbar)</span>:**
    Fast access to commonly used functionality

-   **<span style="color: rgb(51,102,255);"> [<span
    style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">Project
    Tree</span>](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Design+Studio+Project+Tree)</span>:** Organize
    and manipulate integration components

-   **<span style="color: rgb(51,102,255);"> [<span
    style="color: rgb(51,102,255);">Transformation
    Toolbar</span>](https://success.jitterbit.com/display/DOC/Design+Studio+Transformation+Toolbars)</span>:**
    Special functions used when creating transformations
