[//]: # (Cloud Studio Overview for Design Studio Users)

## Introduction

If you use [Jitterbit Harmony Design Studio](/display/DOC/Design+Studio) (also called Jitterbit Studio), you already
know there are many moving pieces and parts to integrations. Design Studio offers the flexibility of designing
projects in numerous ways, creating powerful solutions for a broad range of integration problems. Since its first
release over 10 years ago, our design application has been enhanced countless times to add to its capabilities in
delivering best-in-class functionality for evolving integration challenges.

Today, we've reimagined the user experience of designing integrations from the ground up. Built on the solid
foundation of the [Jitterbit Harmony Cloud
Platform](/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Security+and+Architecture+White+Paper#JitterbitSecurityandArchitectureWhitePaper-MajorComponents),
which includes the [Jitterbit Harmony Agents](/display/DOC/Agent) that run the processes that support integrations,
[Jitterbit Harmony Cloud Studio](/display/CS/Cloud+Studio) accelerates integration design to the next level. Cloud
Studio offers a modern, web-based experience, optimized for ease of use and ease of access by integration designers.

The purpose of this document is to help existing Design Studio users transition to Cloud Studio and includes a
comparison of major features.


## Accessing the Design Application

Design Studio is a client application that must be downloaded and installed on a supported operating system (Windows
or macOS) with the specific hardware requirements listed in [System Requirements for Design
Studio](/display/DOC/System+Requirements+for+Design+Studio).

With Cloud Studio, you no longer need to install the design application on a machine. Instead, [Cloud
Studio](/display/CS/Cloud+Studio) offers platform- and location-independent access from anywhere with an Internet
connection through the [Harmony Portal](/display/DOC/Jitterbit+Harmony+Portal). Supported browsers include Chrome,
Firefox, and Safari (macOS only). In addition, you can seamlessly navigate to and from the other Harmony apps such
as [API Manager](/display/DOC/API+Manager), [Marketplace](/display/DOC/Marketplace), and [Management
Console](/display/DOC/Management+Console) while designing a project.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/hp/landing/cards_cloud-studio_without-header.png)

**Q:** *Can I use both design applications at the same time?*

**A:** You can use Cloud Studio and Design Studio at the same time for *different*** projects. However, using them
for the same project is not possible.


## <span id="CloudStudioOverviewforDesignStudioUsers-importing" class="confluence-anchor-link conf-macro output-inline" hasbody="false" macro-name="anchor"> </span>Creating and Importing Projects

When you open Design Studio, you are presented with a Getting Started screen where you can create a new project,
open an existing project, or import a Design Studio project. After opening a project, the same actions can be taken
from the File menu in the menu bar.

In Cloud Studio, these actions are taken from the [project index](/display/CS/Project+Index), which shows a
repository of all your Cloud Studio projects in project card view or list view. The import functionality allows you
to import projects that have been exported from Cloud Studio.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/project-index/card-view.png)

**Q:** *an I export a Design Studio project and import it into Cloud Studio?*

**A:** Currently, this functionality is unavailable. However, we are developing an import tool that will allow you
to import Design Studio projects into Cloud Studio in the future.

**Q:** *Can I export a Cloud Studio project and import it into Design Studio?*

**A:** Cloud Studio projects are not backwards-compatible with Design Studio. You can, however, [export Cloud Studio
projects and import them into Cloud Studio](/display/CS/Project+Exports+and+Imports). Cloud Studio projects are in
the format of a JSON file.

**Q:** *Are there any templates so I don't have to build projects from scratch?*

**A:** [Jitterbit Marketplace](/display/DOC/Marketplace) provides hundreds of pre-built projects by offering [Cloud
Studio Integration Recipes](/display/CS/Cloud+Studio+Integration+Recipes) and [Cloud Studio Process
Templates](/display/CS/Cloud+Studio+Process+Templates), with more continually being developed. To get started with
an existing recipe or template, see [Starting a Recipe or Template
Project](/display/DOC/Starting+a+Recipe+or+Template+Project). A limited number of [Citizen
Integrator](/display/DOC/Citizen+Integrator) recipes, which are exclusively for Design Studio, are also available.


## Design Interface

In Design Studio, the main area you work within and where you build operations is referred to as the design window
or the design workspace. As you build your project, project items are listed in the left within the project items
listing panel, where you can organize them into folders. You also have access to a toolbar and menus that offer
additional options.

Cloud Studio offers an intuitive, modern workflow design using its project designer. On opening a project, these
parts of the project designer are displayed:

-   **Project Toolbar:** The [project toolbar](/display/CS/Project+Toolbar) along the top allows you to access
    project actions and navigate to recent projects.

-   **Project Pane:** The [project pane](/display/CS/Project+Pane) on the left provides navigation throughout your
    project.

-   **Design Canvas:** The [design canvas](/display/CS/Design+Canvas) is the primary workspace where you design
    workflows.

-   **Component Palette:** On the right, the [design component palette](/display/CS/Design+Component+Palette)
    provides access to connectivity resources.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/project/project-designer_annotated_pp.png)

Instead of folders, operations are organized into [workflows](/display/CS/Workflows) to help segregate different
parts of the project. You can navigate your project using the project pane within two different views:

-   **Workflows:** This tab shows the operations within each workflow, and the discrete steps that make up each
    operation, consisting of activities, transformations, or scripts.

-   **Components:** This tab shows all components that exist within the project. Like using folders, you can also
    organize components into [custom groups](/display/CS/Component+Groups).

Within the **Workflows** tab, each workflow's structure is dynamically depicted with each operation auto-numbered
based on its location in the workflow's hierarchy.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/project-pane/workflows/design-studio_annotated_pp.png)


## Establishing Connectivity

In Design Studio, connections to data consist of native connectors, sources, targets, web service methods, and other
entities, many of which have unique configurations and behavior. For example, data structures are inherited from
connectors, but defined in transformations for sources and targets.

Cloud Studio offers major advances in connectivity. Not only does Cloud Studio have new connectors, but the
connector architecture has been redefined from the ground up. Connector development has been standardized to make it
faster and easier for anyone to develop new connectors.

The [Connector SDK](https://developer.jitterbit.com/connector-sdk/) that Jitterbit uses to develop new platform
connectivity is now offered to developers to create new connectors for their organization. This has also allowed us
to create [Connector Builder](/display/CS/Connector+Builder), a point-and-click interface for non-developers to
quickly stand up new, branded connectivity to REST-based interfaces.

Connectors that you create as well as the standard Jitterbit-provided connectors are now consistent, with all
connections being configured using connectors that are accessed from the [design component
palette](/display/CS/Design+Component+Palette). See [Connectors](/display/CS/Connectors) for all connectors that are
available in Cloud Studio.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/component-palette/connectivity/endpoints_design-studio_annotated_pp.png)

To establish connectivity, you start by using a connector to create a connection to the resource. Once a connection
is configured, activity types associated with those connections can then be placed into operations on the design
canvas and configured as sources or targets in a project. An endpoint refers to a specific connection and its
activities.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/project/connectivity-terms_annotated_pp.png)


## Defining Schemas

In Design Studio, source and target data structures are defined directly in a transformation, and not within the
source or target itself (except in the case of application connectors and SOAP web service methods).

With Cloud Studio, you now have the option to define a schema either in an activity, which will be automatically
inherited by the transformation, or within the transformation itself.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/connector/ftp_write_design-studio_annotated_pp.png)

It's important to recognize that although sources and targets in Design Studio are referred to as activities in
Cloud Studio, the concept of whether an activity is used as a source or a target still exists. That is, a source
activity is any activity that provides data to an operation, while a target activity is any activity that receives
data within an operation. Ultimately, whether a schema is required depends on if the activity is being used as a
source or target of a transformation.


## Creating Operations

To build operations in Design Studio, you must select an operation type, which then creates an operation with
certain components that are pre-placed for configuration. While easy to use, the operation types have limited
flexibility.

With Cloud Studio, you can now populate each operation directly with appropriate activities, scripts, and
transformations. This provides for more flexibility to create operations to meet the business use case. Contextual
menus guide you to add components in the correct order.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/design-canvas/design-studio_annotated_pp.png)

In both Design Studio and Cloud Studio, you can chain operations together through success and failure conditions. In
Cloud Studio, these are known as [operation actions](/display/CS/Operation+Actions). Operations can be chained
across workflows.


## Transformation Mapping

In Design Studio, transformations consist of visual mappings between source and target fields. Identifying the
target logic, variables, and mapped source fields requires drilling down into each field, and identifying what
source fields are mapped to a target requires additional effort.

Cloud Studio introduces easier browsing of mappings, allowing you to easily see the mapping details for all fields
at a glance, including source fields, variables, and script logic, without additional clicks. Each source field
indicates the number of mapped target fields, and provides direct access to those fields.

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/transformation/mapping-mode/design-studio_annotated_pp.png)

In addition, you still have access to the same types of robust features provided by Design Studio, including
[previewing a transformation](/display/CS/Preview+Mode) and [creating conditional
mappings](/display/CS/Conditional+Mapping). Additional features that are available only in Cloud Studio include
[mirroring a schema](/display/CS/Mirrored+Schemas) from one side of the transformation to the other, and the
[exporting and importing of mappings](/display/CS/Transformation+Mapping+Exports+and+Imports) with the ability to
select which mappings to use if there are conflicts.


## Using Scripts

In Design Studio, you can use scripts throughout your project to add functionality wherever needed, whether the
script is used as a step within an operation, as logic within a mapped target field, or as a condition on a target
node to filter which records are processed.

Cloud Studio has the same use of script types and continues to use the [Jitterbit
Script](/display/CS/Jitterbit+Script) language, with the same support for [JavaScript](/display/CS/JavaScript) as
Design Studio. Overall, scripts are treated largely the same, with a few minor differences.

The biggest difference is the syntax for how project components are referenced in a script. For example, in Design
Studio, an FTP source reference would have this syntax:

```
&lt;TAG&gt;Sources/My FTP Source Name&lt;TAG&gt;
```

In Cloud Studio, the corresponding component would be an FTP Read activity with this syntax:

```
&lt;TAG&gt;activity:ftp/My FTP Endpoint Name/ftp_read/My FTP Read Activity Name&lt;TAG&gt;
```

This difference is important if you're manually copying a script from a Design Studio project into Cloud Studio, as
these references would need to be replaced (for details, see
[Endpoints](/display/CS/Jitterbit+Script#JitterbitScript-connectors) under [Jitterbit
Script](/display/CS/Jitterbit+Script)).

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/script/transformation-script_design-studio_annotated_pp.png)


## Deploying and Migrating

While you design a project in Design Studio, you can deploy selected project items or the entire project and migrate
projects from one environment to another.

These concepts are the same in Cloud Studio: you can select certain project components to deploy or deploy the
entire project (see [Project Deployment](/display/CS/Project+Deployment)). Projects can also be migrated between
environments (see [Project Migration](/display/CS/Project+Migration)).

(The term "migration" refers to moving a project from one environment to another. If instead you want to *import* an
exported Cloud Studio project into Cloud Studio, see [Creating and Importing
Projects](#CloudStudioOverviewforDesignStudioUsers-importing) earlier on this page.)

![](https://docs-source.jitterbit.com/cs/project/deploy_design-studio_annotated_pp.png)


## Hands-on Training

We've put together an introductory training course on Cloud Studio, offered through our online learning system at
Jitterbit University. Over time, we'll develop advanced course material on Cloud Studio, just as we have for Design
Studio. Learn more at [Getting Training](/display/DOC/Getting+Training).


## Future Enhancements

Our Cloud Studio developers work on a rapid cycle that delivers frequent updates to Cloud Studio, with additional
functionality offered through new features, enhancements to existing features, and addressing defects.

We welcome any ideas you might have for future improvements! If you have suggestions, please submit a request
through our [Ideas Portal](https://community.jitterbit.com/s/login/?startURL=%2Fs%2Fideas) and a member of our
product team will get back to you on the status of your request.
